_notes/public/digital garden.md, before:

---
title : Digital garden
date : 2021-10-24
stage: in-progress
---

A digital garden is a type of web presence which is [somewhere inbetween a tweet and a blog](https://maggieappleton.com/garden-history), in terms of the amount of structure and finality of the contents (see [[note stages]]). Like a garden, it's grown slowly over time, by [tending to notes and planting new ones](https://maggieappleton.com/garden-history). 
A digital garden consists of notes on various things the author wants to capture, such as [thoughts, ideas, highlights, annotations, quotes, and summaries](https://cagrimmett.com/notes/2020/11/08/what-are-digital-gardens/).
It is a place for [learning in public](https://www.swyx.io/learn-in-public/), so some contents will be more authorative and more complete than others. Contents are intended to change over time. 

A good starting point in learning more about how to use or consider information in a digital garden, and to understand the ethos of the gardener as well is the [Digital Garden Terms of service](https://www.swyx.io/digital-garden-tos/) by [Shawn Wang](https://www.swyx.io/).

If you are also interested in setting up an online digital garden, my [[site setup]] might provide some inspiration in terms of tooling.

Commit message:

added dates, page-specific mailme, header images, optimized backlinks code
Added dates to show in pages with a backlink, added page-specific mailme in footer, optimized backlinks code, added header image support for pages with backlink.

_notes/public/digital garden.md, after:

---
title : Digital garden
created : 2021-10-24
date : 2021-10-14
stage: in-progress
image: /assets/img/japanese-garden.jpg
image-alt: Japanese Garden - Image by Luke Phang from Pixabay
---

A digital garden is a type of web presence which is [somewhere inbetween a tweet and a blog](https://maggieappleton.com/garden-history), in terms of the amount of structure and finality of the contents (see [[note stages]]). Like a garden, it's grown slowly over time, by [tending to notes and planting new ones](https://maggieappleton.com/garden-history). 
A digital garden consists of notes on various things the author wants to capture, such as [thoughts, ideas, highlights, annotations, quotes, and summaries](https://cagrimmett.com/notes/2020/11/08/what-are-digital-gardens/).
It is a place for [learning in public](https://www.swyx.io/learn-in-public/), so some contents will be more authorative and more complete than others. Contents are intended to change over time. Digital gardens are often a cleaned-up, public expression of [[personal knowledge management]] systems used by the author.

A good starting point in learning more about how to use or consider information in a digital garden, and to understand the ethos of the gardener as well is the [Digital Garden Terms of service](https://www.swyx.io/digital-garden-tos/) by [Shawn Wang](https://www.swyx.io/).

If you are also interested in setting up an online digital garden, my [[site setup]] might provide some inspiration in terms of tooling.
