_notes/learning.md, before:

---
title: Learning
stage: note
created: 2021-11-05
date: 2021-11-06
tags:
  - t-learning 
---

Learning is one of my passions. I have been in some form of school non-stop since kindergarten ;) I love to learn, whether it is learning how to sing, how to play beat saber at expert+ level, or how to develop optimal [XR] user interfaces. In teaching I have had a broad set of experiences from Introduction to programming to Algorithms and datastructures and Research skills (Curiosity). 

Some of the topics and questions I have started to dive into in this [[digital garden]]:
- How do you become an [[expert]]? 
- How can a [[learning community]] help us in life-long learning?
- What are key concepts in learning (and teaching) that are important to understand? Such as [[threshold concept]]s, [[scaffolding]], but also the productivity-related [[Pareto principle]].

I can thoroughly recommend the books by [Barbara Oakley](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/669905.Barbara_Oakley) on this, specifically:
- [A Mind for Numbers](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18693655-a-mind-for-numbers), for learners (related to Learning how to Learn on Coursera – Thanks [Almer Tigelaar](https://almer.tigelaar.net/), for pointing me towards that one!)
- [Uncommon Sense Teaching](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55835996-uncommon-sense-teaching), for teachers

They are both very thorough, concrete and hands-on.

Commit message:

syncing newer notes that apparently had not been pushed before

_notes/learning.md, after:

---
title: Learning
stage: draft
created: 2021-11-05
date: 2021-11-06
tags:
  - learning 
---

Learning is one of my passions. I have been in some form of school non-stop since kindergarten ;) I love to learn, whether it is learning how to sing, how to play beat saber at expert+ level, or how to develop optimal [XR] user interfaces. In teaching I have had a broad set of experiences from Introduction to programming to Algorithms and datastructures and Research skills (Curiosity). 

Some of the topics and questions I have started to dive into in this [[digital garden]]:
- How do you become an [[expert]]? 
- How can a [[learning community]] help us in life-long learning?
- What are key concepts in learning (and teaching) that are important to understand? Such as [[threshold concept]]s, [[scaffolding]], but also the productivity-related [[Pareto principle]].

I can thoroughly recommend the books by [Barbara Oakley](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/669905.Barbara_Oakley) on this, specifically:
- [A Mind for Numbers](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18693655-a-mind-for-numbers), for learners (related to Learning how to Learn on Coursera – Thanks [Almer Tigelaar](https://almer.tigelaar.net/), for pointing me towards that one!)
- [Uncommon Sense Teaching](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55835996-uncommon-sense-teaching), for teachers

They are both very thorough, concrete and hands-on. 

> “Learning is the ultimate procrastination” 
> – [Tiago Forte](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w3u2tP-4vvg). 

Tiago Forte’s position is that if you can get the same work done without more learning, then that learning is just a way of procrastination. Learning provides a certain sense of achievement. It is fun to be able to do things you could not before. But it is easy to take it further than necessary. This line of thinking would then advocate for a just-in-time approach to learning – to pick up knowledge and skills when you actually need them. 

I disagree. Your goal is likely not just to be able to do what you already can do. You probably want to improve at your craft. Secondly, I have noticed that people tend to switch gears every 5-7 years or so. Then learning new things is important as it helps you decide which direction to pivot to when the time comes.  (Read more on this way of thinking in [[Dorie Clark - The Long Game (2021)]])
