_notes/site to do.md, before:

---
title: Site To Do
stage: draft
created: 2021-10-24
date: 2021-10-24
image: /assets/img/checklist_1920.jpg
image-alt: Checklist - Image by StockSnap from Pixabay
---

Things I still want to improve, add, or fix:

**Should have**
- Extend the backlinks listing to show note status icon if information is present, perhaps just before the note title like in the normal listing.
- Use the backlinks listing style also for the other listings, as this way more notes can be shown in a smaller space, allowing for discovery and wandering
- Extend the backlinks listing to show a small part of the header image to make everything a bit more visual, perhaps as a narrow slice at the top of the note block, more for aesthetics than for actually showing the contents of the picture?
- Finish the final refactoring of the original theme in terms of separating layouts and making file names lowercase
- Filter out markdown comments between %% and %%
- Add alternative internal link names with pipe syntax - tried to work on this, but there is some additional processing going on somewhere in the background that makes it more difficult than I thought.
- Dealing with aliases

**Could have**
- Support for different types of document listings, with or without images, also smaller like the backlinks listing
- Graph view showing the links between notes
- Tag support (I don't use tags that much, aside from indicating note status and note type)
- Improve the content parsing code, as it is now pretty inefficient going through arrays multiple times unnecessarily. Not a problem right now, but could be problematic when the digital garden gets larger? Yey for pre-building ;)
- Make the back button just go back one step using browser history. Makes the behavior more as expected when going through different notes via internal links.
- Adjust responsiveness widths. It gets very narrow before moving to mobile full width mode.

For more information on the full setup for my site, see [[site setup]].

Commit message:

Fixed flex issues with note listing
Now the notes listing behaves more as a user would expect, adding more notes in a row when the screen is wider and reducing to only 1 note per row when narrow. (adjusted grid template columns style.css)

_notes/site to do.md, after:

---
title: Site To Do
stage: draft
created: 2021-10-24
date: 2021-10-24
image: /assets/img/checklist_1920.jpg
image-alt: Checklist - Image by StockSnap from Pixabay
---

Things I still want to improve, add, or fix:

**Should have**
- Filter on notes with specific tags (key areas)
- Use the backlinks listing style also for the other listings, as this way more notes can be shown in a smaller space, allowing for discovery and wandering
- Extend the backlinks listing to show note status icon if information is present, perhaps just before the note title like in the normal listing. - perhaps not as an icon, but as a word, which is easier to interpret in this case
- Extend the backlinks listing to show a small part of the header image to make everything a bit more visual, perhaps as a narrow slice at the top of the note block, more for aesthetics than for actually showing the contents of the picture?
- Finish the final refactoring of the original theme in terms of separating layouts and making file names lowercase
- Filter out markdown comments between %% and %%
- Dealing with aliases – aliases can perhaps be used as an alternative to alternative internal links (see item below)
- Add alternative internal link names with pipe syntax - tried to work on this, but there is some additional processing going on somewhere in the background that makes it more difficult than I thought.

**Could have**
- Support for different types of document listings, with or without images, also smaller like the backlinks listing
- Graph view showing the links between notes
- Tag support (I don't use tags that much, aside from indicating note status and note type)
- Improve the content parsing code, as it is now pretty inefficient going through arrays multiple times unnecessarily. Not a problem right now, but could be problematic when the digital garden gets larger? Yey for pre-building ;)
- Make the back button just go back one step using browser history. Makes the behavior more as expected when going through different notes via internal links.
- Adjust responsiveness widths. It gets very narrow before moving to mobile full width mode.

For more information on the full setup for my site, see [[site setup]].
